DBZ-2460 Prepare filter SMT doc (#1803)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/configuration/filtering.adoc

toc::[]

By default, {prodname} delivers every data change event that it receives to the Kafka broker.
However, in many cases, you might be interested in only a subset of the events emitted by the producer. 

> To enable you to process only the records that are relevant to you, {prodname} provides the _filter_ simple message transform (SMT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable you to process only the records that are relevant to you, {prodname} provides the `Filter` simple message transform (SMT).
```

Author: :thinking: Hmm. I had used that convention originally, but following a conversation with @TovaCohen, I adopted the lowercasing without the tick marks. I thought that usage was based on feedback that you and @gunnarmorling provided on the outbox event router doc. Not sure if I misunderstood. 

In any case, I agree that, especially on first mention, it might be good to highlight the term somehow. Are you suggesting that, or would you prefer to see `Filter` used consistently throughout?

Reviewer: The issue with the outbox one was the usage was `outbox.EventRouter` more making a reference to package naming per-se.  If you guys agreed to use lowercase without the ticks, that's fine.  Just so long as we're consistent, I think that's the most important take-away.

Reviewer 2: So there's two different represents:

* The "semantical name", e.g. "outbox event router", "content-based router", "filter", etc.
* The actual class name, e.g. `io.debezium.transforms.outbox.EventRouter`, etc.

From a reading flow perspective I think the semantical name should be used most of the times in docs, e.g. when describing its purpose etc. The class name should be used when pointing out how this is actually used. I like how that's done for outbox now, with the [Basic configuration](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/configuration/outbox-event-router.html#_basic_configuration) section being the one that introduces the class name in one single place. Would be nice to have this done similarly here, too. Btw. this should be _before_ the actual options for outbox, i.e. "Basic configuration" should be the first under "Configuration". Could you do this as part of this PR? Thx!

Author: I made this change as part of the latest commit.

As the filter SMT processes the event stream, it evaluates each event against the configured filter conditions.
Only events that meet the criteria of the filter conditions are passed to the broker.

The filter SMT supports scripting languages that integrate with https://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=223[JSR 223] (Scripting for the Java(TM) Platform).

Kafka Connect provides its own link:https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-66%3A+Single+Message+Transforms+for+Kafka+Connect[Simple Message Transforms] (SMT) to encode filtering logic.
However, the following drawbacks apply to using the generic SMT:

* It is necessary to compile the transformation up front and deploy it to Kafka Connect.
* Every change needs code recompilation and redeployment, leading to inflexible operations.

// Type: concept
// ModuleID: example-of-configuring-filter-conditions
// Title: Example of configuring filter conditions 
== Example

To filter change event records, configure the filter transformation in the Kafka Connect configuration for the {prodname} connector.
Configuration of the filter SMT requires you to specify a regular expression that defines the filtering criteria. 

> For example, you might add the following configuration in a `.properties` file:name: value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you might add the following in your connector configuration
```

To use an expression language, you must download the JSR-223 script engine JAR for the language, and add the JAR to your classpath, along any other JAR files used by the language implementation.
For Groovy 3, you can download the JAR from https://groovy-lang.org/. For GraalVM JavaScript, the JAR is available at https://github.com/graalvm/graaljs.   

Typically, you add the language JAR to the directory that contains the {prodname} connector JAR files, which is the directory that is referenced in the `plugin.path` configuration property that is set for the Kafka Connect plugin. 
If you install the script engine JAR to a different directory, you must add that directory to the list in the `plugin.path` property. 

====

// Type: concept
// ModuleID: variables-for-use-in-filter-expressions
== Variables for use in filter expressions

When you create expressions to specify filter conditions, you can use the variables that {prodname} binds into the evaluation context.
Certain variables are bound into the evaluation context for the SMT.

> By binding variables , {prodname} enables the SMT to look up and interpret their values as it evaluates the conditions in an expression. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By binding variables, {prodname} enables the SMT to look up and interpret their values as it evaluates the conditions in an expression. 
```

Author: I made this change as part of the latest commit.

The following table lists the variables that {prodname} binds into the evaluation context for the filter SMT:

.Filter expression variables
[options="header"]
|=======================
|Name |Description |Type
|`key`   |A key of the message. |`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Struct`
|`value` |A value of the message. |`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Struct`
|`keySchema` |Schema of the message key.|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Schema`
|`valueSchema`|Schema of the message value.| `org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Schema`
|`topic`|Name of the target topic.| String
|`headers`
a|A Java map of message headers. The key field is the header name. 
The `headers` variable exposes the following properties:

* `value` (of type `Object`) 

* `schema` (of type `org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Schema`)

| `java.util.Map<String, io.debezium.transforms.scripting.RecordHeader>`
|=======================

An expression can invoke arbitrary methods on its variables. 
Expressions should resolve to a Boolean value that determines how the SMT dispositions the message.
When the filter condition in an expression evaluates to `true`, the message is retained. 

> Whenthe filter condition evaluates to `false`, the message is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the filter condition evaluates to `false`, the message is removed.
```

Author: I made this change as part of the latest commit.
